## About the Author

Robin Wieruch is a german software and web engineer who is dedicated to learn and teach programming in JavaScript. After graduating from university with a masters degree in computer science, he hasn't stopped learning every day on his own. His experiences from the startup world, where he used JavaScript excessively during his professional time and spare time, gave him the opportunity to teach others about these topics.

For a few years, Robin worked closely with a great team of engineers at a company called [Small Improvements](https://www.small-improvements.com/) on a large scale application. The company builds a SaaS product enabling customers to create a feedback culture at their company. Under the hood, the application worked with JavaScript in the frontend and Java in the backend. In the frontend, the first iteration was written in Java with the Wicket Framework and jQuery. When the first generation of SPAs became popular, the company migrated to Angular 1.x for the frontend application. After using Angular for more than 2 years, it became clear that Angular wasn't the best solution to work with state intense applications back in the days. That's why the company made the final jump to React and Redux that has enabled it to operate on a large scale successfully.

During his time in the company, Robin regularly wrote articles about web development on his personal website. He noticed that people would give him great feedback on his articles that allowed him to improve his writing and teaching style. Article after article, Robin grew in his ability to teach others. Whereas the first article was packed with too much stuff that could be quite overwhelming for students, the articles improved over time by focussing and teaching only one subject.

Nowadays, Robin is self-employed to teach others. He finds it a fulfilling activity to see students thrive by giving them clear objectives and a short feedback loop. That's one thing you would learn at a feedback company, wouldn't you? But without coding himself he wouldn't be able to teach things. That's why he invests his remaining time in programming. You can find more information about Robin and ways to support and work with him on his [website](https://www.robinwieruch.de/about).
