## How to read the Book

One thing is certain, no one learned programming by just reading a book. Programming is about hands on experiences. It is about conquering challenges to grow in the long term. So no one learned a programming paradigm, such as functional programming, in the short term. No one learned a concept, such as state management, on a weekend. No one learned yet another library, such as React and Redux, over one night. You will learn things only by deliberately practicing them.

In the book, I want to give you these hands on experiences and challenges to grow. The challenges are meant to create a flow experience, a scenario where the challenge meets your skills and tools at hand. Otherwise, you would feel either overwhelmed or bored. If the book accomplishes to keep this balance of challenging you and respecting your level of skill, you might experience a [state of flow](https://www.robinwieruch.de/lessons-learned-deep-work-flow/). Personally I found this insight astonishing when I read about it, so I hope that I can induce it in this book. It would be the perfect outcome.

The book follows the central theme of state management in modern applications. It starts with local state management in a view library (React), points out the problems of it in scaling applications and will lead over to sophisticated state management solutions such as Redux and MobX. While you read the book, you will find code playgrounds that illustrate problems and solutions. I encourage you to play around with these code playgrounds to have a hands on experience. You can even try to apply these code snippets in your own editor and play around with them. But don't worry if it doesn't work out. You will be guided to apply your learnings in an editor in various chapters. However, don't hesitate to apply the learnings earlier on your own. You will only grow when facing challenges.

As mentioned, there are guided hands on experiences in the book. There, you will be guided to solve problems by using the techniques you have learned in the previous chapters. You will solve these problems in an online editor, that is already prepared, or in your own editor. It should give you the experience of applying your learnings beyond only reading a book. This book aims to go beyond only being reading material. It's supposed to be a practical hands-on guide that let's you apply your learnings in order to deepen your knowledge.

Be aware that the [JS BIN](http://jsbin.com/) online editor, that you are going to use occasionally, will not always provide all functionalities from modern browsers. For instance, you might run into problems when trying to apply JavaScript ES6 and beyond functionalities. That's why I try to transition to an own project setup in your editor as soon as possible. There you have the full control over your projects and can continue working on the projects even after you read the book.

In addition, make sure to internalize each lesson learned before you continue with the next chapter. The book is written in a way that the learnings build up on each other. Your knowledge around state management will not only scale horizontally by using different techniques but also vertically by using technique on technique. That's why it is important to internalize each learning before your continue to read.

The React library is used as view layer library in this book to demonstrate the usage of state management in modern applications. However, fortunately, a view layer is exchangeable. If you are learning state management to apply it to another view layer library, such as Vue, you can try to substitute React with Vue on your own. The book doesn't want to dictate the view layer library or framework. If you are brave, you can apply the learnings in your very own application where you want to introduce state management while reading the book.

Another hint is to make notes while you read the book. You can write down questions where the book doesn't give you an answer and look them up afterward. Or you can write down your learnings to internalize them. That is how I do it when I read a book. Last but not least, if you write down feedback about the book, you can send me your notes afterward. I am highly interested to improve the book all the time to keep the quality up.

It should be obvious by now that you will have the best outcome of this book by having a laptop on your side. You can join the [Slack Group](https://slack-the-road-to-learn-react.wieruch.com/) to get help from others or to help others yourself. When having a laptop on your side, you can directly apply your new learnings and confront yourself with the hands-on chapters. As mentioned before, no one learned something by just reading a book.
