# Last but not Least

Well, if I haven't lost you by now, you can read a bit further to make it to the end of this book. The last chapters of this book have the objective to inspire you to apply your learnings. You will read about further learning paths after you read the book, a life hack to improve your learning experience and other people in the (React and) Redux ecosystem that you might want to follow for inspirations.

So far, the book has taught you different approaches of state management. Whether you are using React, an alternative view layer library or a sophisticated SPA library; most of them will come with a built-in solution to deal with local state. The book has shown you React's local state management and demonstrated approaches to scale it in plain React applications. Afterward, you learned extensively about Redux as sophisticated state management library. It can be used in combination with any view layer or SPA library. The book has taught you how to use it in React applications, too. As alternative to Redux, you  read about MobX as sophisticated state management library. It comes with its own advantages and disadvantages. After all, Redux and MobX give you two different approaches to opt-in state management to your application. However, you should never forget about your local state management solution to keep your state coupled to your components rather than exposing it in your global state.

## Further Learning Paths

You have built a couple of applications in this book. While reading the chapters, you adapted the applications to apply advanced techniques, tools or features. Perhaps you even followed all of the practical chapters closely in the book. But that's not the end. It's the end of me guiding you in this learning experience, but now it's up to you to continue with it. I guess there are far more features, techniques or tools that you could apply to these applications. Be creative and challenge yourself by implementing these on your own. I am curious what you come up with, so don't hesitate to reach out to me.

The book uses React as its view layer. But React is not mandatory to utilize Redux or MobX. Other view layer libraries or even SPA frameworks have their own local state management. Yet they can be used together with Redux or MobX. You can substitute the React view layer with your own solution to build modern applications. If you haven't read [the Road to learn React](https://www.robinwieruch.de/the-road-to-learn-react/) and this book made a good job pitching React to you, you can give the other book a shot. It teaches the fundamentals of plain React by building a larger application that consumes an external REST API. Both books complement each other perfectly.

I always advocate that [learning with APIs is empowering](https://www.robinwieruch.de/what-is-an-api-javascript/). That's why I try to teach with APIs when the basics of a topic are taught. Now it's up to you to build your own applications to deepen your understanding of the tools and techniques at your disposal. For instance, you can build your own SoundCloud Client in (React and) Redux. It would consume the SoundCloud API. But there are tons of platforms out there which expose their REST APIs (Reddit, Twitter or Yelp etc.). Choose one and build a client application on top of it. I am sure, after you display some of their RESTful data, you will come up with creative features. Again, you can always reach out to me to showcase your applications. I am curious what you will build after you read the book.

Yet another challenge could be to build your own state management solution from scratch. Redux is not a large library when you inspect the source code. Your first attempt could be to duplicate its functionalities. There are several tutorials out there that already show you how to do it. But you can try it on your own, too. Perhaps you even have another concept that should be embraced by your state management library. Anyways, by building such a library yourself, you will fortify your learnings.

[Redux is an open source library](https://github.com/reactjs/redux). That's why it is possible for you to contribute to the project. It can be intimidating to contribute in open source, but it is a great return of investment. Just start by helping out for the documentation or by answering questions in GitHub issues. You will immediately find yourself in a great community of contributors. You can even go beyond it and try to solve bug issues, review pull requests or help out people on other platforms such as [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/reactjs/). By contributing to the topic itself, giving back something to the community, you will grow your learnings in the topic.

You can keep yourself educated in this area by reading articles about it. I write a lot about these topics on my personal website. You can give it a shot and dig into some of the topics. One of it gives you [a list of useful tips to learn React and Redux](https://www.robinwieruch.de/tips-to-learn-react-redux/). Two more great external resources are the repositories by Mark Erikson: [react-redux-links](https://github.com/markerikson/react-redux-links) and [redux-ecosystem-links](https://github.com/markerikson/redux-ecosystem-links). I would argue that you will find any solution to a problem in them. In addition, you will dive deeper into the techniques and tools in Redux.

If you want to go beyond Redux, you can give [Relay Modern](https://facebook.github.io/relay/docs/relay-modern.html) or [Apollo Client](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-client) a shot. Both enable you to build [GraphQL](http://graphql.org/) consuming client application. By using Relay Modern or Apollo Client, you can give your application state management in your client API layer rather than application layer. I am sure you will find more educating material on them if you search for it. In addition, I have more upcoming tutorials on those technologies if you want to keep an eye on them. Similar to the platforms that expose REST APIs, you could for instance look up platforms that expose a GraphQL API. In your own client application you could use Relay Modern to consume the API. Perhaps there already is a tutorial that explains how to consume these GraphQL APIs.

As you can see, there are endless possibilities to apply your learnings. Don't hesitate and jump into coding. I am curious what you come up with, so please reach out to me.
